.\"
.\"   $Id: radvd.8.man,v 1.2 1998/08/05 21:25:53 lf Exp $
.\"
.\"   Authors:
.\"    Lars Fenneberg		<lf@elemental.net>	 
.\"
.\"   This software is Copyright 1996 by the above mentioned author(s), 
.\"   All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"   The license which is distributed with this software in the file COPYRIGHT
.\"   applies to this software. If your distribution is missing this file, you
.\"   may request it from <lf@elemental.net>.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH RADVD 8 "8 Dec 1996" "radvd @VERSION@" ""
.SH NAME
radvd \- router advertisement daemon for IPv6
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radvd
.B "[ \-vh ]"
.BI "[ \-d " debuglevel " ]"
.BI "[ \-C " configfile " ]"
.BI "[ \-m " method " ]"
.BI "[ \-l " logfile " ]"
.BI "[ \-f " facility " ]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B radvd
is the router advertisement daemon for IPv6. It listens to router
solicitations and sends router advertisements as described in
"Neighbor Discovery for IP Version 6 (IPv6)" (RFC 1970). With this
advertisements hosts can automatically configure there addresses and
some other parameters. They also can choose a default router based
on these advertisements.

.SH OPTIONS

For every one character option there is also a long option, which
is listed right next to the "short" option name:

.TP
.BR "\-v" , " \-\-version"
Displays the version of
.I radvd
and then aborts.
.TP
.BR "\-h" , " \-\-help"
Displays a short usage description and then aborts.
.TP
.BR "\-d " debuglevel, " \-\-debug " debuglevel
With this option you turn on debugging information. The debugging level is
an integer in the range from 1 to 4, from  quiet to very verbose. A
debugging level of 0 completely turns off debugging. If a debugging level 
greater than 0 is used,
.I radvd
doesn't background itself on start. The default debugging level is 0.
.TP
.BR "\-C " configfile, " \-\-config " configfile
Specifies an alternate config file. Normally the compiled in default
.I @PATH_RADVD_CONF@
is used.
.TP
.BR "\-m " method, " \-\-method " method
Specifies the logging method to use. Possibly values are:
.RS
.TP
.B none
Completely disables any logging.
.TP
.B logfile
Logs to the logfile which is specified by the
.I \-l
option. If no logfile is specified on the command line, then
a compiled in default is used (see next option).
.TP
.B stderr
Logs to standard error.
.TP
.B syslog
logs to syslog (default method).
.RE
.PP
.TP
.BR "\-l " logfile, " \-\-logfile " logfile
Specifies the logfile to use when using the logging method
.IR logfile .
The default logfile is
.IR @PATH_RADVD_LOG@ .
.TP
.BR "\-f " facility, " \-\-facility " facility
Specifies the facility (as an integer) when using syslog logging. Default
is @LOG_FACILITY@.
.SH FILES

.nf
@sbindir@/radvd
@PATH_RADVD_CONF@
@PATH_RADVD_LOG@
.fi
.SH BUGS

There certainly are some bugs. If you find them or have other
suggestions please contact Lars Fennberg <lf@elemental.net>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR radvd.conf (5)
.SH AUTHORS

.nf
Pedro Roque	<roque@di.fc.ul.pt> - wrote first version for Linux
Lars Fenneberg	<lf@elemental.net>  - current maintainer
Craig Metz	<cmetz@inner.net>   - port to NRL's IPv6 code for BSD4.4
.fi
